# My favorite anime shows

## Wholesome

## 1. Sewayaki Kitsune no Senko-san

Ever wondered what life was like if a cute kitsune girl took care of you like a
mother and wife? Me neither! The main character is a programmer with a toxic
workplace. Senko-san decents from the heavens to pamper the living shit out of
him so he doesn't produce negative energy from being stressed all the time.

...perhaps also my favorite show of all times. It's simple, the art isn't
and the audio isn't great but there is no other show for me with the same
relaxed vibe. Senko-san has been an inspiration for me to do my best, keep
going during hard times and to care/help for others. A very wholesome show with
lots of pampering!

### 2. K-On!

Cute girls with utter betrayal by stealing the strawberry off the cake from
someone else's, sleeping with the guitar that just got a cute nickname 3
seconds ago and a whole lot of wholesome jamming sessions.

### 3. ...

...

## Warfare

### 1. Jormungand

We follow Jonah, a child soldier without a cause. Purchased by an arms dealer
named Coco who hates weapons. He and her crew protect her merchendice and act
as personal bodyguards during intense deals. Both Jonah and Coco have goals and
dreams they persue.

There is nothing like it out there. The story is unique, the action scenes are
intense and the characters are likable. I rewatching it yearly, and can't get
enough of it still.

### 2. Black Lagoon

An office job, a terrible work environment with no hopes nor dreams. You go on
a business trip to the carribean for your company, when on your way home you
get fucked up by pirates. Going home? No way, you've been declared a dead man.
Only option? Go with the pirates and live in the ruly bay where they reside.

Almost sounds like a sweet start for a DND5E campaign. It's very over-the-top,
but enjoyable to watch nonetheless. Each character fits in the world, each have
their own scemes and many factions to look out for. It looks a bit dated but
it adds it's own charm.

### 3. Eighty-Six

A story about an officer commanding a batallion of forced conscripted mech
pilots from another etnicity than their society. They have to fight together
and explore eachother's worlds to reclaim their freedom and win the war against
the AI-driven machines.

The premise sounds weird, but man the show has many reasons for me to watch the
show, and mechs alone isn't the only reason (**cough** Vladilena Milizé (Lena)
**cough**). It's low on fan service unlike most other mech shows, and it's
narrative is solid. One of the first show where I felt that highschool teens
piloting mechs wasn't annoying.

## High-tech futuristic

### 1. Cyberpunk: Edgerunners

Story is about David who's a street punk going to a private school which his
mother works very hard for to keep him in. Bullied at school and living someone
else's dreams, one day his world gets turned around when his mom is killed by a
driveby shooting while he was in the car on his way back home. His world falls
apart, trying to survive on the streets until he meets a mysterious girl who
tries to rob his money.

I'm literally speechless thinking about it. It's that good. Character designs
are very different but top-notch. The aestatic looks like an 80s anime, which
is amazingly well executed. Audio is great. The story is a little rushed but
very different and unique in a good way. Tons of references to Cyberpunk 2077 (video game).

Highly recommended!

### 2. Ghost In The Shell (all)

...

### 3. Heavy Object

My guilty-pleasure show. The story isn't that good, the mech design is very
unusual but man I love the chemistry between characters. 

## Game/Isekai

Lumping these types of show together because isekai is often related to games
the main character plays.

### 1. Sword Art Online Alternative: Gun Gale Online

LLENN is a really tall girl in the real world who loves the color pink and
small things. Almost no other VRMMORPG had a character with the size she wants,
so she tries Gun Gale Online. While things are not as she expected at the
beginning, she slowly falls in love with her FN Hertal P90, the world and makes
friends online.

The character design of the protagenist is cute, there are some nice twist and
turns into the show, and we see genuine progression in character development
over the course of the show. I'm also slightly biased since it takes place in
the world of one of my favorite video games: Gun Gale Online Fatal Bullet
(which ironically is an offline singleplayer game).

### 2. Log Horizon

One of the shows that existed before the category Isekai existed but fits
perfectly. The protagenist is a stratagist for an MMORPG. He and many other
players got teleported into the world with the new update, and now have to
learn to survive in the world. Is there a way out? Who knows!

It's slow, dated but quite unique for it's category. Characters are likable and
I personally like the phasing alot. There is no hesitation for the show to get
into deep details of the world, which I like. Nicest thing is that the
character is not some edgelord highschool boy who somehow gets all the girls.
It's not a mary sue nor a blank insert for self fulfillment like many others in
the genre.

### 3. ...

...