# Programming: Exploiting EFT's loading mechanism

In the past few years I've been working on SPTarkov, a singleplayer tarkov
experience. This is done by emulating the game servers. But in order to build
this server, we need game data from the real servers (referred to as live
server in this article). Today I'll highlight a method to utilize a code
execution vulnerability which allowed the SPTarkov team to dump data from the
game.

## Internals

The loading mechanism is as follows:

1. Launcher file integrity check
2. Launcher starts game
3. Game dlls load
4. Game file integrity check
5. BE active
6. Request data

BE is pretty invasive, not all checks are made client-side. Skipping heartbeats
means the client is detected. Game file integrity checking only affects the
game files, the launcher checks also for some additional files added (related
to ReShade for hooking and other common win32 hooks).

In addition, the following is used for requests:

- Protocols: HTTP, WS
- Security: SSL (TLS 1.2), AES-256 for payload
- Payload compression: ZLib (RFC1950)
- Headers: Unity engine origin, `SESSIONID`, `PHPSESSID`

EFT uses client request caching;

- Filename: base64 (full url)
- Security: XOR (^ 13)
- Payload compression: ZLib (RFC1950)

## Vulnerability

NLog 4 contains a mechanism to hook up external loggers though the `Target`
system. This means NLog loads an external managed DLL containing the target and
loads it into the appdomain. BattlEye for Unity relies on NLog 4. There's a bug
which makes `NLog.dll.nlog` load before `nlog.config`, meaning we get to define
and load the targets definitions before EFT's original targets loads. Since BE
depends on NLog it has to wait for NLog to complete loading before it can load
in. 

## Exploiting

...
