# C89-OOP: Single inheritance

In the previous article I demonstated quickly the atonomy of a class and how to
emulate this in C89. Today I'll cover briefly single inheritance, aka where a
class can only inherit from another class.

## Implementing inheritance

The concept itself is pretty simple, the child class embeds the super class in
order to contain it's functionality. Let's take this example using `Foo` from
the previous article:

```csharp
class Bar : Foo
{
    int y;

    Bar(int x, int y) : Foo(x)
    {
        this.y = y;
    }

    int getY()
    {
        return this.y;
    }
}
```

`Bar` "extends" `Foo` by adding a new field `y` and a new method `getY`. In
order to initialize both, we call the super's constructor.

Let's try to accomplish the same in C89:

```c
typedef struct Bar Bar;

struct Bar
{
    Foo base;
    int y;
};

void Bar_ctor(Bar* self, int x, int y)
{
    Foo_ctor(&self->base, x)
    self->y = y;
}

int Bar_getY(Bar* self)
{
    return self->y;
}
```

Pretty much the same as the example of the previous article, but there are some
important distinctions:

```c
struct Bar
{
    Foo base;
    int y;
};
```

`Foo` is embedded inside of `Bar` as it's first member. This is where our base
class's fields and class properties live. The `base` field being the first
member is important. I'll explain why in the next article.

```c
void Bar_ctor(Bar* self, int x, int y)
{
    Foo_ctor(&self->base, x)
    self->y = y;
}
```

In the constructor we initialize `Foo` first so it has the correct values. You
always want to initialize base classes first so you can use the members later
in your constructor.

## Calling inherited members

We can also access members of the super class from the child class:

```csharp
Bar bar = new Bar();
int val = bar.getX();
```

Emulating this in C89 is absolutely possible, but it's not going to look
pretty:

```c
Bar bar;
int val = 0;

Bar_ctor(&bar, 1, 2);
val = Foo_getX(&bar->base);
```

Sure we could make it look prettier by adding a conversion function:

```c
int Bar_getX(Bar* self)
{
    return Foo_getX(self->base);
}

int main()
{
    Bar bar;
    int val = 0;

    Bar_ctor(&bar, 1, 2);
    val = Bar_getX(&bar);

    return 0;
}
```

But now you have to add this conversion method for _each_ previous inherited
class in the inheritance chain. Not only will this clutter your code with many
duplicate functions that take up memory, it will also result in larger call
chains which is not ideal (especially on embedded systems). I would call this
"code smell".

## Conclusion

You've now learned how to implement a very simple inheritance stratagy, and how
to access the members from the base class. Next up is casting our structs to
emulate upcasting and downcasting.
