# Thoughts: Transgender difficulties

I've had the unique oppertunity in my life to widness multiple friends
undergoing the transitioning from one gender to another as well as
seeing many of the hardships that come with it. I've seen them struggle with
recent events, which is why I bring this up here.

Being born the wrong gender is no joke. The transitioning is a long and very
mentally burdening process, the period before is even rougher and afterwards
there are many things you cannot use anymore for coping (smoking, drugs,
alcohol) nor will you be able to produce children. You have to build a new
identity that you didn't had since birth, and have plenty of opposition
culturally that gladly make your life rougher. The decision has to be made
around 14 or earlier, otherwise your hormones would be out of balance too much
to actually successfully transition without looking like frankenstein. Your
surroundings has to adapt too and not everyone is willing to accept the change.
Those who actually undergo this process is whom I've absolute respect for, and
commend for their bravery and will.

Recently there is a trend online that's becoming increasingly more popular; to
call oneself transgender without ever aiming for or undergoing the
transitioning itself. These people reffer to themselves as "trans men" or
"trans woman" on social media, usually paired with a statement that they are
"trans allies". These are the same people advocating in the US that
transgender is not a disorder (If transgender is a disorder is not for me to say, but not calling it this has implications in the current healthcare
system. Needs to be fixed!).

In my opinion, this is quite harmful. These posing trans men/woman usually
don't do it because they truly want to transition, but because they want pity and attention. Those undergoing the process don't want to be called "trans" nor
get pity or attention, they just want to be and reffered to as the other
gender and not some sort of flux state. Because transgender is no longer seen
as a disorder, people do not receive the medical financial aid they otherwise
would've gotten in the US due to how the system works. 

One thing the Dutch parlement is discussing recently is passing a change in
the law that makes it easier for people to change their gender on their
passport. I'm in favor of this as this would make it easier for people to
experiment if they truly want to live as the other gender. It's a bit odd if
you have your trial period by dressing and behaving like the desired gender
but the official documents still call you the opposite gender. Chances of
abuse is low since a passport is ~70EU a piece, it takes up to two weeks to
create and you cannot request another one during this period. Your old one
expires as soon as you request a new one, so you cannot swap between two.

Hopefully people will understand that being a transgender is not an identity
to assign to one's personality but a medical process of transitioning to the
correct gender. There is certainly more that could and needs to be done to help
those struggling with making the correct decision, and to support them thorough
their lives. Calling those who are in the process of or transitioned to the
other gender "trans man/woman" is a disservice. Call them "man/woman".
