# TTRPG: My DND5E collection

Two years ago I got dragged into dungeons and dragons by friends of mine. I
first thought that it was not for me, but by seeing them having so much fun and
playing a character they created, I really wanted to join in on the fun too.
Turned out that I didn't like playing as much as running the game, so I'm now
stuck as forever dm hahahaha.

Because I like it as much, I've been collecting many books over the past two
years. Most of them I bought on sale or from a local retail store. I don't run
them myself, but I do use them frequently for inspiration. I only own physical
products, I really don't like tools such as roll20 or dndbeyond. No electronic
devices during the game, just books, booze, cigarretes, dice and candles!

I plan on updating this article whenever I got new stuff, so expect changes.

## Own

### Starter sets

- lost mine of phandelver
- dragons of stormwreck isle
- essentials kit

### Gift sets

- core rules
  - player's handbook
  - monster manual
  - dungeon master guide
- rules expansion
  - xanathar's guide to everything
  - tasha's cauldron of everything
  - monsters of the universe

### Source books

- sword coast adventurer's guide
- volo's guide to monsters
- mordernkainen's tomb of foes
- fizban's treasury of dragons

### Adventures

Some adventures don't have a dm screen for purchase (tales of the yawning
portal, candledeep mysteries).

- acquisitions incorporated
  - book
- tales from the yawning portal
- ghost of saltmarch
  - book
  - dm screen
- candledeep mysteries
- tyrrany of dragons
  - raise of the dragon horde
  - raise of tiamat
  - dm screen
- out of the abyss
  - book
  - dm screen
- tomb of annihilation
  - book
- icewind dale: rime of the frost maiden
  - book
  - dm screen
- storm king's thunder
  - book
  - dm screen
- waterdeep: dragon heist
  - book
  - dm screen
- waterdeep: dungeon of the mad mage
  - book
  - dm screen
- baldur's gate: descent into avernus
  - book
  - dm screen

### Accesoiries

- dungeon master's screen: dungeon kit
- dungeon master's screen: wilderness kit
- adventure grid
- young adventurer's collection

## Want

Products excluded here are miniatures, dice sets and crossover starter kits
(stranger things, rick and morty). I don't feel the need to get those.

### Adventures

Sorted in order of which I would like to obtain them, but it might be different
depending on product availability. My focus for now is the older books and
accesoiries from the forgotten realms, then slowly expand and complete other
realms. The magic the gathering and critical role crossovers have low priority
for me. It would irk me if I didn't get them, but I won't have restless nights
over it.

Note: I don't want the revamped curse of strahd because the box is too big, I
don't like booklets (hardcover ftw!) and it's pricier than obtaining the
original items combined.

Note: I'm still saly that the dm screen of acquisitions incorporated is
exclusive to the penny arcade, which is only available in America! Grrrrr!

- princes of the apocalypse
  - book
  - dm screen
- tomb of annihilation
  - dm screen
- curse of strahd (original)
  - book
  - dm screen
  - deck
- van richten's guide to ravenloft
- ebberon: rising from the last war
  - book
  - dm screen
- the wild beyond the witchlight
  - book
  - dm screen
- journeys through the radiant citadel
- acquisitions incorporated
  - dm screen
- explorer's guide to wildemount
- call from the netherdeep
- guildmaster's guide to ravnica
- mythic odysseys of theros
- strixhaven: a curriculum of chaos
- dragonlance: shadow of the dragon queen
  - book
  - dm screen
- spelljamer: adventures in space

### Accesoiries

Entirely optional, but it would still be sweet to get them. Also would love to
get the hardcover variants of the young adventurer's guide, but really low
priority.

- campaign case: creatures
- campaign case: terrain
