# OS: Hardening my devices

After a friend of mine had `isar` flagged as infected when he used it in his
flutter application, I realized it was high time for me to look into what I
can do to secure myself from potential security hazards.

## 1. Review all source code used in the project

This takes a whole lot of time, but it's better to be safe than sorry. This is
especially true for ecosystems where a package pulls in many others. Just
because a package is used everywhere doesn't mean it's safe!

## 2. Very strict firewall rules

Did you know that Ubuntu 22.04 doesn't come with any rules enabled? Yeah that's
right, no filters by default! This can luckily easily be fixed by adding some
strict default rules:

```sh
sudo ufw allow 80/tcp
sudo ufw allow 443/tcp
sudo ufw default deny incoming
sudo ufw default allow outgoing
sudo ufw enable
```

Did you also know that Steam (game platform) enabled _all_ ports for inbound
connections for every game it installs? Enjoy those remote-execution exploits
on your system while playing games online. So make sure these firewall rules
once the games are installed.

While Windows 10 Enterprise LTSC 21H2 was at the right track by disabling most
inbound connections, it doesn't disable Wi-Fi Direct (WFD) by default. If you
don't use it, turn it off.

## 3. Take special care with browsers

The most vunerable part of your system are you. Most time people spend on the
computer is on an internet browser, whenever its through webview or the actual
application. That's why its a very good idea to reinforce it as much as
possible to protect oneself. That way you don't compromise yourself when you
click on a bad link by accident.

Like with `swf` and `java` ads in the past, malicious advertisements are using
`js` to facilitate attacks through the browser. So disable and filter whatever
you don't use in the browser. `UBlock Origin` makes it easy by making difficult
configurations more easily toggable.

I only allow images, fonts and js on websites that I trust, and have as strict
as possible filtering of advertisements and malicious elements. I clear cookies
and everything else I don't _need_ when I close the browser, and never safe
passwords.

Personally I use Edge on windows because I get to control a whole lot of it
through domain policies and run it hardware sandbox through the windows
security plugin. On linux I use Gnome Web, installed as a flatpak with strict
rules.

## 4. Don't have sensitive information

...on your computer. Keep that on an external hard drive, with encryption. Cold
storage with encryption that's only connected when you really need it is the
best way to prevent data theft.

## Conclusion

Just be careful, make sure to keep the device clean and safe, and everything
should be fine! It is always worth the effort to go the extra mile, because you
wish you did when something happens to ya.
