# Website: Optimizing generation

After pondering at work, I decided to put more effort into optimizing the
website generation. I had two goals in mind: replacing `jsdom` and improving
`writeFile`'s performance.

## JS-DOM

"Dom" in Dutch means "dumb", so reading DOM always makes me chuckle a little.

While `jsdom` is a very accurate emulation of the browser's DOM, I needed speed
and not accuracy. `cheerio` wasn't complete enough for my use-case and I didn't
know any other library at the time of writing the initial generator.

Now that I spend some time researching, I found `linkedom`, an (almost) drop-in
replacement for `jsdom` without the accuracy but with almost amazing speed and
a very low footprint. It made me realize how much `jsdom` was actually
bottlenecking my generator. With this change alone it became blazing fast, but
there was still room left for improvement.

## Async

On the low-end desktop I use at work I noticed the performance impact of having
slow I/O operations. In this regard my program could improve easily by making
it `async`. I don't manipulate the produced file, so I could write everything
in parallel.

...and so I did!

While the results don't matter much on high-end hardware like my personal
desktop computer, it does wonders for low-end hardware like my office pc or a
low-end vps running the build command for each commit.

## Result

A massive decrease in complexity and a massive increase in performance.

Build time:

- old: 14s
- new: 5s

Packages:

- old: 79
- new: 38
