# C89-OOP: Type system

Downcasting and upcasting types can be hard because it's easy to lose track of
which type what instance was. Since in most OOP languages we have a type system
that helps with determinating the type at runtime, I thought it was a nice
challenge to emulate this in C.

I found quite some research papers online on the topic, but I'm not smart
enough to understand any of it so I wrote my own implementation without using
any of the available papers for reference.

The goal is to provide a minimalistic system for identifying the type of an
user-defined class instance. I tried to keep the implementation as simple as
possible.

## Type structure

```c
typedef struct Type Type;

struct Type
{
    int (*getId)(void);
};

void Type_setId(int* typeId)
{
    static int id = 0;

    if (*typeId == 0)
    {
        *typeId = ++id;
    }
}
```

We make a `Type` VMT which contains a pointer to the function returning the
instance's type id. The code for generating the new id speaks for itself.

## Base type

I've modified `Foo` from `C89-OOP: Class` to demonstrate the new things we need
to add in:

```c
typedef struct Foo Foo;

struct Foo
{
    Type* type;
    int x;
};

int Foo_getTypeId()
{
    static int typeId = 0;

    Type_setId(&typeId);
    return typeId;
}

void Foo_ctor(Foo* self, int x)
{
    static Type typeinfo = {
        Foo_getTypeId
    };

    self->type = &typeinfo;
    self->x = x;
}
```

`Foo_getTypeId` generates a new id if it doesn't have one yet, and returns this
id. In `Foo_ctor` we create the static instance of `Foo`'s type information and
assign it to all instances of `Foo`.

## Derived type

This is the modified `Bar` class from `C89-OOP: Single Inheritance`. Like with
`Foo`, quite a bit of code has been added.

```c
typedef struct Bar Bar;

struct Bar
{
    Foo base;
    int y;
};

int Bar_getTypeId()
{
    static int typeId = 0;

    Type_setId(&typeId);
    return typeId;
}

void Bar_ctor(Bar* self, int x, int y)
{
    static Type typeinfo = {
        Bar_getTypeId
    };

    Foo_ctor(&self->base, x);
    self->base.type = &typeinfo;
    self->y = y;
}
```

We change the `Type` to match `Bar` in the constructor. This way if we cast
`Bar` to `Foo` it would still report it to be `Bar`. This is the same
behaviour as in C#.

## Usage

The code isn't very clean, but it does illustrate how it works well:

```c
Bar bar;
Foo* foo;
int isBarType;

Bar_ctor(&bar, 1, 2);
foo = (Foo*)&bar;
isBarType = foo->type->getId() == Bar_getTypeId();
```

To compare the types of two instances for equality:

```c
Foo foo;
Bar bar;
int isBarType;

Foo_ctor(&foo, 1);
Bar_ctor(&bar, 1, 2);
isBarType = foo.type->getId() == bar.base.type->getId();
```

## Conclusion

You now learned how to roll your own primitive type system. Even if this one
isn't very complex, it is still quite a handful to write manually. It's not
something you would need often, but when you need it you're thankful that you
have it in an OOP language.
