# C89-OOP: Interface inheritance

Multiple inheritance always has been a rough topic since there is a lot that
needs to be taken into account. So... why instead not force single inheritance
and give programmers the burden of re-implementing all the code for each class
instead? Welcome to interfaces. Like C's prototypes, interfaces contain
declarations that define which definitions to exist when a class inherits the
interface.

```csharp
interface IFoo
{
    int getX();
}

class Foo : IFoo
{
    int x;

    Foo(int x)
    {
        this.x = x;
    }

    int getX()
    {
        return this.x;
    }
}
```

To translate this to C89:

```c
typedef struct IFoo IFoo;
typedef struct Foo Foo;

struct IFoo
{
    int (*getX)(IFoo* self);
};

struct Foo
{
    IFoo* ifoo;
    int x;
};

static int Foo_getX(IFoo* self)
{
    Foo* foo = (Foo*)self;
    return foo->x;
}

void Foo_ctor(Foo* self, int x)
{
    static IFoo ifoo = {
        Foo_getX
    };

    self->ifoo = &ifoo;
    self->x = x;
}
```

We can emulate it as close as possible by using a technique called
`Virtual Method Table` (VMT):

```c
struct IFoo
{
    int (*getX)(IFoo* self);
};
```

Here `IFoo` is a VMT that contains all methods and property getters/setters
that a class inheriting from `IFoo` needs to contain. While we cannot enforce
an interface to be respected at compile time in C89, we can at least have the
error handling at runtime.

```c
struct Foo
{
    IFoo* ifoo;
    int x;
}

Foo_ctor(Foo* self, int x)
{
    static IFoo ifoo = {
        Foo_getX
    };

    self->ifoo = &ifoo;
    self->x = x;
}
```

`Foo.ifoo` is a pointer so we can define a single VMT (`ifoo`) that we share
across all instances of `Foo`. This means we can save up quite a bit on memory
compared to having all instances use their own VMT instance. The reason why
`ifoo` is a static variable inside the function, is to have a static instance
of the VMT only changable in `Foo_ctor`'s scope.

```c
static int Foo_getX(IFoo* self)
{
    Foo* foo = (Foo*)self;
    return foo->x;
}
```

`Foo_getX` will only ever get accessed from the source file, so we don't need
to expose it outside. It also allows for more compiler optimizations. We have
to cast `IFoo` to `Foo` in order to be able to access `Foo`'s members.

## Usage

To call a method from a VMT, we can simply do this:

```c
Foo foo;
int val;

Foo_ctor(&foo, 1);
val = foo.ifoo->getX((IFoo*)&foo);
```

We can use `IFoo` also for casting the same way we did it in the previous
article:

```c
Foo foo;
IFoo* ifoo;

Foo_ctor(&foo, 1);
ifoo = (IFoo*)&foo;
foo = (*(Foo*)ifoo);
```

## Conclusion

We explored what interfaces look like in OOP, how to implement this in C89, and
how to call and cast them! In the next article we'll explore an alternative way
to deal with inheritance; virtual inheritance.
