# Rant: OOP and spaghetti bolognese

Under the category of "some parts are not a bad idea but the rest was a
mistake", it is needless to say that I don't really like OOP. Some of the ideas
aren't bad; (virtual) interfaces and single inheritance has been done for many
years in C and older languages.

## A chimera

What is a bad idea however is combining data and functions into one structure.
Those two do not fundamentally belong together. A data structure is just a
descriptor of raw data. A function is what transforms this data. There is no
hidden state. Anyone can transform the data as they please.

In OOP (almost) _any_ type of data (with sometimes the exception to primitives)
is an `object`. You bind methods that define how the instance of the class (an
object) should be manipulated. When the functionality you need is not defined
in this class, need to extend it from the outside (extension methods). Classes
may contain hidden state (defined by access modifiers), which may make it
impossible to modify the data _unless_ you bypass it with an often build-in
mechanism called `reflection`.

The fact the language includes a system to bypass the access modifiers included
in the language should be enough to tell you how bad of an idea this is. the
fact you need to add a mechanism to extend functionality which instead could be
done much simpler when using just plain data structures and functions should say
enough to say that it's a bad idea.

## What upsides?

What is supposed to make OOP great is simplicity and abstraction, but
simplicity is nowhere to be found and abstraction hurts more than it's solving.

Classes to me are much more complex than data structures and functions, because
in a class I have to worry about both _and_ internal state. Without OOP I just
have to worry about the layout of my data structure, and the functions
transforming them properly.

Abstraction is like putting a layer of red pasta sauce on top of your
spaghetti. The difference is that the spaghetti is abstracted away by the
sauce instead of plain naked. Abstraction does not provide simplicity. In fact,
it just hides your problem into another layer. And when you have sufficient
enough layers, it becomes much harder to track what problems you're actually
solving. Everything depends on these abstractions so you better get it right
the first time.

## Design patterns

"But design patterns based on abstractions is what makes it great! Now everyone
understand what I write!". Right. For C and most imperative programs, design
patterns haven't been a big thing because the complexity of the code and
language itself is sufficiently low enough to not need them. The need for
design patterns came in OOP because the language itself is too complex and thus
people needed tools to solve these issues. The fact that most OOP software need
these patterns to remain properly structured highlights a fundemental flaw in
OOP languages.

Don't get me wrong, design patterns themselves are not bad ideas. It's just not
something you should religiously follow. They are names for common code
structures, not a solution to your problem. It becomes dangerous when people
start to think "what design pattern should I use to solve this problem" instead
of "how should I solve this problem", because then you cannot think of the best
solution.

People would argue that not using a design pattern would reduce readability of
the code, but I disagree. Code remains code. I am a programmer, so I should be
able to understand someone else's code as long as he/she uses the same
programming language I understand. A simple but straight-forward solution to
the problem is far more readable and debuggable than a design pattern.