# Importance of elders

It is not often that I speak of them, but I believe that elderly people have
a story to tell, lessons I can learn from, experiences that make me grow and
understand, and are generally good company for conversations.

It might be a bit weird to say, but to me my grandparents aren't grandparents.
They are friends, people. Maybe old of age, but not old of mind. I cannot have
a conversation as equals if I can't see them as such. And to me, my friends
are my equals. Thus I see them as close friends.

## An elderly couple

For example, there is a Japanese woman and her Dutch husband I somtimes email
with whom I share experiences from my life and questions regarding various
topics.

The Japanese woman's view on various topics makes me look at a different angle
than I would from my own world's viewpoint. Learning to love life and the world
from tranquility, and the importance of writing with pure and honest intensions.

The husband taught me the concept of Ubuntu, curiousity of the exploration of
self and that age is irrelevant to discussion, that good companionship and
careful listening with an open mind is however.

## My parent's mothers

Regarding what I said in my previous article on war, it reminds me of my
grandma of my father's side and her friends. They never complained no matter
how tough things were for them. They were very honest people, spoke their minds
and cared deeply not only for themselves but everyone around them.

My grandmother was from a greengrocer family's. They had enough food during the
hunger winter to provide for themselves, but as they traveled around she saw
desperation and the effects of war. When I asked her if she as a Catholic
Christian still believed in god, she said:

> "After witnessing all of this, even through it's all man-made, how could I?"

She instead believed in her church and their endeavours for unity and
improvement for both the local community and worldwide (helping families in
poor countries by providign oppertunities and medicine). She believed in
Christianity as a moral compass, and as she called it "the mantle of love"
which we carry and should provide it's warmth to others. It's usually a little
effort to help another, but for them it has a much bigger impact.

Like my father's mother, my mother's mother is a very caring person. Gentle and
passionate about the things she does, and I probably got the chaotic traits
from her. She always asks if we had enough food and shines bright when we walk
over the dyke and enjoy the view of the sea. While she rarely shows her honest
thoughts and is indirect but she is very dignified. When it comes to manners
and love of language, I am sure I got this from her.

## My parent's fathers

My grandfather from my mother's side is a strict, stubborn and blunt but a
righteous and virtuous man. He doesn't hesitate to speak his mind, and his
stubbornness means he can accomplish what is set out to do. He is a man I truly
admire, and a role model in my life. While he doesn't show it often in words,
there is an emotional and affectionate side in him.

When I was a child I had a very hard time understanding his actions, but now
that I have grown older and wiser, I realize that his strictness was out of
care for his family.

At last I'll close off with something my grandfather from my father's side.
It's a pity I was too young to get to know him before he died, but my father
sometimes speaks vividly about him.

He was an uptight person with anger management issues caused primarly due to
the war. However, he strongly believed in giving people place to grow their
passion, eager for learning new developments and technologies, and a strong
sense of, unity duty and moral values.

When the spanish worker immigrants came to the Netherlands, most of them looked
at them with distain. My grandfather instead started to learn Spanish. Without
passion, unity of the people and compromise between parties, we cannot uphold a
civilization.

## Closing throughts

They all taught me the importance of loving and caring those around you, the
importance of curiousity and self development. The importance of discussing
with an open mind and unity and compromises. Why we need to have our own moral
compass and values with righteous and stubbornness at heart. The sense of duty
and working hard in order to strive.

I wouldn't be where I am today without them, and they get too little credit for
this in my opinion. That's why today, I dedicate this post to you, my elders.
