# Happy new year!

Oh dear, I haven't updated this blog over a month(!). Guess now is the perfect
time to do it. I've been trying to write articles, but all of them just weren't
satisfactory.

I'm not one of those who say "new year, new me!". Rather, I am going to improve
instead. There are many wants that I have, but I really need to do it. That's
what I am going to change this year. You can't move forward without doing it.

Objectives for now (listed in priority):

- Back to wushu. Now that I've stopped attending for a while, I noticed how
  much training matters for me, even tho I drive 40km on average on my bike.
  Will go to the facility to sign me up again, and keep training every week.
- Moving to my own apartment. It's expensive (especially with pricing today),
  but it's a step I am taking towards independence. Currently busy finding a
  place and getting my finances in order to afford it.
- Completing my dnd5e collection. Getting pretty far, but I am missing a shy
  9 book(sets) I think, mostly low priority ones like the magic the gathering
  setting books. I do miss a lot more of the adventure league stuff, but there
  is no rush.

Got myself a new magic te gathering deck so my friends can finally stop
complaining that I only got one deck to play hahahaha.

While I have serious reservations of this year going to be magically better
than the last year, I'll be looking forward to what's in store for me this
year. One thing is certain, I'm going to miss typing `2022` as it was so easy
to type.