## SPTarkov: History - EMUTARKOV 2020

Within the same hour, 3000 people joined the discord. It was flooded far beyond
the scope I intended for; a small development-focussed community. Many changes
and mistakes were rapidly made. The biggest one was the creation and almost
instant deletion of a russian-spoken channel, which promtly led the creation
of the JRT (JustRussianTarkov) community.

When TheMaoci joined my discord and him trying to ceremonially handing over his
community to him, he claimed he did just as much work as I did. That pissed me
off on so many levels that I pulled up the commit log and gave him a reality
check. It resulted in me getting doxxed (have your private information shared)
by him.

Since there was so much going on, I made a small discord which I placed trusted
members in; "Senko's Safe Haven". This server is where I would do most of the
work without disturbance and functioned in the same model as the old Safe Haven
server that TheMaoci made for JET. This was jokingly refered to in public as
the VIP server.

Most of this period is a blur in my head. I felt a really strong responsability
to carry on the project, combined with the global pandemic at the time, I made
it a habbit to sleep less than 2 hours a day and drinking copius amounts of
energy drink. It was often joked about that I never slept.

The biggest things I still remember was PoloYolo making all kind of insane
`Assembly-CSharp` (game code) patches which were injected by hand for each
version, prompting BASURO to make tools to simplify the comparing of C# dll
files. Wanting something more maintainable, I designed the precursor to
BepInEx mods: the module system.

Basically BattlEye scans all loaded dlls, preventing loading. But BattlEye
depends on NLog, which has a build-in assembly loader (NLog Targets). By faking
my dll to be an NLog Target, we could load custom code before BattleEye was
able to detect it. I got most of the work done, stx09 taught me the missing
pieces.

Another big thing was Craink coming from a chinese forum to help out to
implement bundle loading; aka being able to import custom assets. This layed
the ground work of what's still used today inside Aki.

Since I was so busy with making the project, Frumon and Shiro operated under
AWX as head moderator. This is where I learned that free speech in an online
an online community. Due to AWX's choices, it became acceptible to post the
most vile videos I've seen in my life because of "free speech". When I saw it,
AWX got kicked out and we started to clean up the discord. Eresh became part of
the moderation team.

In the middle of June 2020, BSG was onto the project. It grew to roughtly 10000
users and simply became talked about too often in the public eye. First
somewhat accepting the project, but later judged it to be a cheating platform.
Technically, they were not wrong. Historically EmuTarkov indeed had been used
that way. With false DMCA strikes from TheMaoci on the project source and with
the discord receiving a warning from discord, as well as the community growing
jaded and toxic, it was time to look for greener pastures.

Different platforms were evaluated, but in the end we settled with guilded. I
send them an email explaining the situation and created the server on
2020-07-15. 

The last version released was `0.12.3-R4`, EFT versions 0.12.3 to 0.12.5.
