## SPTarkov: History - JET 2019

After setting up a discord account and joining the mysterious server, both
BALIST0N and I got greeted respectfully by TheMaoci and his friends. This is
also the moment when BALIST0N and I spoke with each other in real time for the
first time. With his good taste in music and a cheery attitude it didn't take
long for us to become good friends. TheMaoci and I spend hours talking about
random things like anime, programming, interests, etc.

It was quickly decided that my fork of EmuTarkov would be used for development
of JET as mine was a bit ahead and was the cleanest. Porting over changes and
fixes made by BALIST0N and TheMaoci, we quickly scrambled a release of JET
(`0.5.0`) and published it 2019-04-24.

Much work was done in the meantime when `0.7.3` arrived, I made a working
server-side HTTP backend to handle multiple clients and Apofis made a primitve
raid server implementing EFT's netcode. Initial repairs and insurance code was
written, some quests could be completed and more work was done for bot
generation. The most impressive? Actual offline progression! Sadly reality
kicked in and had to go back to actually doing things for university, went on a
hiatus until 16 october that year.

Not soon after watching the last episode of "Sewayaki Kitsune no Senko-san", I
changed my nickname from "No;Hurry" (short form of InNoHurry;ToCode, based on
the anime InNoHurry;ToShout) to "Senko-san" and my profile picture from my
handdrawn smug looking cat to the character of the anime; a caring and cheerful
demigod blonde foxgirl in shrine maiden outfit.

When I returned, TheMaoci showed me around in a small discord community he
created. The first 100 members were there already like Echo-chan, Ereshkigal
(called Sorata-sempai back then), AssAssIn, Karma, Cheeki Breeki, Ivan,
SergeyVampire, XkaOnslaught, Arkmah1123, Saaly, Ishige and RaiRaiTheRaichu. I
still talk to most them from time to time.

It was surreal to see people praising, discussing and complaining about the
work for the first time in real time. Sadly I didn't had time to introduce
myself to everyone just yet; BALIST0N send me an urgent message. TheMaoci wrote
such bad server code that it was in dire need of a rewrite.

So I sat down with BALIST0N and TheMaoci to prepare `0.8.0`; a complete rewrite
of the server. TheMaoci was more occupied with "other things" so it was mostly
me with the help of BALIST0N doing the rewrite. EFT 0.12 was around the corner
and everyone was excited for the new map (Reserve Base) and all the cool new
equipment that came with it. The decision was made to pospone 0.8.0 so we
can use 0.12.

A mistake.

It was an awful lot of pain to get it working since BSG did actually made
substantial changes to the server-side. It took nearly 1 month to finalize the
release. The famous phrase "0.12 when" became a thing and so SPTarkov memes
were born. It's also around the time I started to get more involved with the
community. TheMaoci made a new devblog channel for me in which I happily showed
everyone what we've been up to. I got Ereshkigal, Shiro (RedRafa) and Frumorn
to be my helpers and moderators.

The release of `0.8.0` was a huge success. The discord grew almost overnight
from 3000 members to 8000. There were plenty of unimplemented ends, but the
core functionality was rock solid. There was huge appriciation for the work
done and the "helpme" channel became a cesspit of new rude users. Some things
never change. The first mods were created here too; the shorty SR-25 (aka the
SR-25 with a MPX-SD barrel and snow texture) being among my favorites.

It was after I started to spend more time with the community that I was
beginning to notice TheMaoci being not the guy I thought he was. He made cheats
for EFT to be used online, and I _really_ do not like online cheaters. He sold
harvested game data. And not long after me finding out he started to try and
talk me into accepting obfuscation for the project, wanting to sell the project
and he began publicly cheating in the discord. The discord broke in two; people
who supported him and those who supported me. I had enough when I had a big
fallout when he brought up the point of making it closed source again.

He was the only one who knew the client-side changes, I was the only one who
maintained the whole server as BALIST0N went on a break starting January. In
order to solve the dependency issue, I sweet talked TheMaoci into teaching me
the BattlEye patching work and the offline raid save code. It worked. Then I
sat down with Ereshkigal, Shiro, Frumorn and BALIST0N when he came back for
creating the new community. With their support and guidance, the discord was
set up and the announcement was made on 2020-02-24 in the devblog channel of
JET.

"I am moving development to my own public repo and dev-oriented community, feel
free to join! I still wish to collaborate with JET and contribute where I can."

For TheMaoci, this was betrayal and the breakup of a community. For me, this
was my only chance at making this project survive.

The last version released was `0.8.5`, EFT versions 0.11.7.3333 to 0.12.1.X.