## SPTarkov: History - EMUTARKOV 2019

Out of curiousity and boredom during a lecture in university, I started
browsing github for "escape from tarkov emulator". To my suprise, there was
one: EmuTarkov.

It was developed by Polivilas since ~2018 and publicly released at 2019-02-26.
Designed as a cheating sandbox to safely develop cheats without getting banned,
all it could really do was get you into a raid with a fixed profile. BALIST0N
was an avid player of the game since 0.2 and contributed some code as well for
making bots able to spawn and being able to buy items. I honestly didn't need
more than that myself, I just wanted to dress-up my character in cool looking
ways and shoot some scavs to get som sweet payback.

The project was written in the by me dreaded language; JavaScript (ES5). I'm a
trained Unity game developer and I knew a thing or two about C89 / C++98 /
.NET Framework 2.0. But JS? God it was an awful language! It did however make
the barrier of entry easy (theoretically) because it's a scripting language;
easy to pick up.

...that was until I saw the source. It was one big JS file of over 1000 lines
of **MUTATED shared state**. In the course of the next month, it was haunting
me during every lecture; I _had_ to rewrite that!

On the good evening of 2019-05-29 I got myself wasted enough to read the source
in full and made my first commit at 2019-05-30. Starting in June, I refactored
most of the code to remove shared state and rework the internals to make
development simpler and faster. I also started to bundle the code with NodeJS
so users could just download & play.

At the end of June (2019-06-20), TheMaoci made a post on the issue board to
ask Polivilas, BALIST0N and me to join a Discord server (chat group) so we
could collaborate in realtime. While Polivilas declined, BALIST0N and I joined.

Little did we know that this was the beginning of a new era.

The last version released was `0.4.1`, all versions were made for
EFT 0.11.7.3333.