# C89-OOP: Inheritance

While C is not an object-oriented language, we can emulate the behaviour of object-oriented constructs inside the it.
I don't think someone should try to emulate these structures in C outside of acedemic purposes (how do OOP languages work internally?), but who knows if someone finds some good use case out of this.

For today I'll quickly glance over ways to implement inheritance, and how to solve the diamond problem.
I'll assume you already have experience with an object-oriented language like Java / C#

## Class anotonmy

```java
class A
{
    int x;

    A(int x)
    {
        this.x = x;
    }

    int getX()
    {
        return this.x;
    }
}

class B extends A
{
    int y;

    B(int x, int y)
    {
        super(x);
        this.x = x;
        this.y = y;
    }

    int getY()
    {
        return this.y;
    }
}

class Program
{
    static void main(String[] args)
    {
        B b = new B(1, 2);
        A a = (A)b;
        int i = a.x;
        int j = b.y;
    }
}
```

Above we define the base class (`A`) and derived class (`B`).
Each class has a constructor where we initialize our values.
In case of the derived class, we call the constructor of the base class first.
We also have a method for getting the value of the field each class has.

You probably notice that the `this` keyword is used in the constructor and method of the class.
This is a hidden pointer that contains a reference to the instance calling it.

## Simple inheritance

```c
/* a.h */
#ifndef A_H
#define A_H
typedef struct A A;

struct A
{
    int x;
};

void A_ctor(A* self, int x);
int A_getX(A* self);
#endif
```

```c
/* a.c */
#include "a.h";

void A_ctor(A* self, int x)
{
    self->x = x;
}

int A_getX(A* self)
{
    return self->x;
}
```

```c
/* b.h */
#ifndef B_H
#define B_H
#include "a.h"

typedef struct B B;

struct B
{
    A base;
    int y;
};

void B_ctor(B* self, int x, int y);
void B_getY(B* self);
#endif
```

```c
/* b.c */
#include "b.h"

void B_ctor(B* self, int x, int y)
{
    A_ctor(self->base);
    self->y = y;
}

void B_getY(B* self)
{
    return self->y;
}
```

```c
/* main.c */
#include <stdlib.h>
#include "a.h"
#include "b.h"

int main()
{
    B b;
    A a;
    int i;
    int j;

    B_ctor(&b, 1, 2);
    a = (A)b;
    i = A_getX(&a);
    j = B_getY(&b);

    return EXIT_SUCCESS;
}
```

The code above might look quite intimidating, but it's much simpler to understand when you split it up into multiple files.

Since C doesn't have classes, we don't have type aliassing by default nor members with a hidden `this` pointer.
There is no inheritance either, so we'll have to emulate this as well.

The structs we define hold the fields and other important references (we'll get back to this in a later post later) of our class.

We use type aliassing here so our struct is its own "type". Personally I always end up glance over the type aliassing in structs without noticing it so I explicitly use `typedef` first to make the code slightly easier to read; people know that type aliassing is used here.

Because we don't call the functions from a class embedding them, we don't know which instance is calling them. This is why we have a `self` pointer parameter at the beginning of each function; to emulate the `this` keyword.

Since C doesn't have constructors for structs build-in, we have to write one ourselves. `A_ctor()` and `B_ctor()` are just that.
To avoid using dynamic memory allocation for instancing like we are forced to do in Java, I'm passing stack references instead.

## Why does casting work?

> A pointer to a structure object, suitably converted, points to its initial member. There may be unnamed padding within a structure object, but not at its beginning
>
> -- WG14/N1256 Section 6.7.2.1.13

This means that alignment is kept for the first member of a struct, which in return allows us to upcast.

## Solving the diamond problem

...

### Interfaces

We can do this by using a very simple yet amazing trick: virtual tables!

If you worked with most modern OOP languages before, you probably know what these are.
They are a very simple solution to the problem: it doesn't exist if you never _have_ to inherit multiple classes.

```java
interface IA
{
    int getX();
}

class A implements IA
{
    int x;

    A(int x)
    {
        this.x = x;
    }

    int getX()
    {
        return this.x;
    }
}
```

To implement this in C, we only have to make a minor adjugement to `a.c`, `a.h` as well as make a header for `IA`:

```c
/* ia.h */
#ifndef IA_H
#define IA_H
typedef struct IA IA;

struct IA
{
    (int)(*getX)(A* self);
};
#endif
```

```c
/* a.h */
#ifndef A_H
#define A_H
#include "ia.h"

typedef struct A A;

struct A
{
    IA* ia;
    int x;
};

void A_ctor(A* self, int x);
int A_getX(A* self);
#endif
```

```c
/* a.c */
#include "a.h";

static IA ia = {
    A_getX
};

void A_ctor(A* self, int x)
{
    self->ia = ia;
    self->x = x;
}

int A_getX(A* self)
{
    return self->x;
}
```

I create one instance of `IA` in `a.c` so all instances of `A` will be pointing to the same reference of `IA`, which saves memory and makes the implementation a bit cleaner overall.

### Virtual inheritance

...todo!
