# Thoughts: Language and gender

Those who've been online on Discord or Twitter for the past few years probably
encountered someone with the she/them pronouns or the likes in their bio. For
some reason people are adapting different pronouns for themselves to customize
their own identity both online and mostly prevailant in the artictic circles
with young people offline.

It came with the rise of many new gender identities that people came up with;
demiboy/girl, androgyne, hijra, big gender androgyneflux and the likes. Almost
all of them feature some sort of flag. Most of them sound like saying "I want
to be accepted as both a woman and a man" and "I want attention" just like how
pansexual and queers sounds like "I'm bi, it's just that I select my partner
differently". It's probably part of exploring oneself. As long as it's not
forced on me, no problem.

To me who's born with Dutch as my primary language, gender identity in language
is a foreign concept. There is no separate concept for biological gender and
gender identity. It's only biological, i.e. based on body features. Interesting
to note is that  `You (Formal)` doesn't have any gender attached. So if you're
not a he or she, you'll be addressed as `U`. The old formal form (`Diens`) did
have gender attached, the female form was rarely used.

English is pretty unique for the fact that it has no gender attached to words,
so technically having different gender pronouns isn't as invasive to the
language's grammar. The language however also doesn't natively include a gender
neutral formal form like we have in Dutch, so new pronouns are introduced
en-masse for specific scenarios. This is invasive in word bloat; Are you ready
to remember how to address people with `xir/xim` or `fae/faeself`? How will you
react if you can get punished in Canada for not calling someone `bugself` when
asked to? (see Canada's Gender Identity Right Bill C-16, Rob Hoogland).

A proposed solution with "claims" that it's being used since 1562 or something
(who knows if this a typo or not?) is using `them/they` as a gender-neutral
form to address a single person. I will refuse to call someone that because in
my culture, only monarchs, god(s) and maybe servants of god(s) are to be
addressed this way. The chances that the queer person in front of me is a
monarch or god is very unlikely.

For the English language, I would be in favor of adopting a new, custom pronoun
for addressing someone formally without gender, and use this in any case where
the gender isn't he/she.
