# Thoughts: Mankind's future

Recently China has been producing many grimdark futuristic mobile games like
`Honkai Impact 3rd`, `Punishing: Gray Raven`, `Project Snow` and
`Girl's Frontline 2: Exilium`. Games like `scarlet nexus`, `cyberpunk 2077`
and `Deus Ex Mankind Divided` do the same in the western market on consoles.

On a sick day, I was wondering about it while reading up on the ST programming
language (used for programming PLCs) as I wanted to use it for programming
robotics. But that job of automating tasks through robotics is what is going to
result in reduction of jobs. It is a natural to progress into this direction.
Human bodies don't scale well as a work force after all, and corporations don't
want to make most of the money but all of it.

For example, we're now working towards self-driving trains with no personnel
onboard. In theory it sounds like a nice cost-beneficial development, but in
pratice there are many questions left. Who will revalidation when elderly get
an cardiac arrest in the train? How can those who don't want to use a pass
still use the train? What would happen in the event someone killed himself by
jumping in front of that train? What if the automated system fails? (which
we've seen before in self driving cars killing people from accidental
acceleration due to lack of redundancy). What about the people who lose the job
they love to do so dearly? Many questions are left unaswered.

Our technology is progressing at a rate that's incomprehensible, yet the human
mind can't keep up and the consequences are not immediately clear. With
automatization of our lives, who will be in control? Who will understand all
the systems in place? How will we ensure that our human rights are respected?
What will happen to those left behind in the wake of progress?

We already reached the stage where a fully functional desktop computer with
modern capabilities down to all electronics involved can no longer be
understood by a single person. Our laws and government body is becoming
increasingly complicated and isn't adapting well with our rapidly evolving
society. Our human rights are no longer respected by the government spying on
it's citizens and foreign countries 24/7 while it's demonstrated that these
programs are highly ineffective.

One of the things that could soften the issue is the universal income idea so
people who can't work due to not having the understanding required can still
participate in the economy. But now one has to learn how to live a life without
purpose. The way I dealt with it is by creating a project to give myself one.
Preservation of knowledge is going to be very important and ensure that enough
people will hold knowledge and skill to be able to take over a machine when
required as fallback. Human redundancy in electronical systems is going to
become far more important, in addition to unity within a society.

In the end, I believe we are going to be okay. Humans strive in the face of
desperation and annihilation. We can acomplish a whole lot together for the
betterment of self and others, but first everyone needs to realize what can be
their part to play and execute on it.

![Varien - Hush the Storm Away (ft. STRIX)](./assets/media/20220812-1/Varien-HushTheStormsAway.mp3)
