# C89-Goto: Switch-case

In my previous article I explained how the `goto` statement can be used to
emulate loop control structures. This time I'll quickly demonstrate how `goto`
can be used to emulate the `switch-case` control structure. It is shown here
for educational purpose only, I doubt anyone is waiting to see this in their
production code unless the language only has support for `if-else` and `goto`.

Alright, loops are not a big deal. But what about switch-case? We're gonna
implement a not too difficult one, which contains fallthrough and a default
statement as well.

```c
/*  switch-case: statement */

int i = 0;

switch (i)
{
    case 1:
        printf("Case: 1");
        break;

    case 2:
    case 3:
        printf("Case: 2");
        break;

    default:
        printf("Case: none");
        break;
}
```

The execution flow is pretty simple:

1. if `i` is 1: print `"Case: 1"` and terminate switch-case
2. if `i` is 2 or 3: print `"Case: 2"` and terminate switch-case
3. if `i` isn't 1, 2 or 3: print `"Case: none"` and terminate switch-case

Here's how to implement this in goto:

```c
/* switch-case: goto */

int i = 1;

if (i == 1) goto case_1;
if (i == 2) goto case_2;
if (i == 3) goto case_2;
goto case_default;

case_1:
printf("Case: 1");
goto switch_end;

case_2:
printf("Case: 2");
goto switch_end;

case_default:
printf("Case: none");
goto switch_end;

switch_end:
```

The code structure is again a fair bit flatter than a normal `switch-case`.
Another interesting observation is that we first define where to jump to for
which values, and then below define how to handle each case.

The overall code could be smaller if we handled the default case at the top
(to eliminate the `goto case_default;`) and remove the `goto switch_end;` from
the last case since it will already continue correctly without jump. We could
also list all options for `goto case_2;` in one go. While it is more compact,
the overall code becomes harder to read as it's less verbose.

```c
/* switch-case: goto */

int i = 1;

if (i == 1) goto case_1;
if (i == 2 || i == 3) goto case_2;

printf("Case: none");
goto switch_end;

case_1:
printf("Case: 1");
goto switch_end;

case_2:
printf("Case: 2");

switch_end:
```

Sure we could implement this as an `if-else` block as well, but I think it
doesn't look as nice if there would be many more cases than we currently have:

```c
/*  switch-case: if-else */

int i = 0;

if (i == 1)
{
    printf("Case: 1");
}
else if (i == 2 || i == 3)
{
    printf("Case: 2");
}
else
{
    printf("Case: none");
}
```

## Conclusion

Hopefully you now understand how `switch-case` can be emulated using the `goto`
statement and with the `if-else` control structure. In the next article I'll
explain how `goto` can be used to emulate exceptions and use it for resource
cleanup (such as memory allocations).
