# OOP: Casting

In most OOP languages it's possible to cast `base <-> derived`. A quick example
of what I mean:

```csharp
Bar bar = new Bar();
Foo a = (Foo)bar;
Bar b = (Bar)a;
```

In C89, the same is possible through pointer magic:

```c
Bar bar;
Foo a;
Bar b;

Bar_ctor(&bar, 1, 2);
a = (*(Foo*)&bar);
b = (*(Bar*)&a);
```

When downcasting, ensure that the class you're downcasting from is indeed of
this type, otherwise you'll get random values from memory addresses and
possibly a `segmentation fault` error.

Remember when I said it was important to have the `base` member first? The
trick from above only works because of how memory alignment and padding rules
work for structs;

> "A pointer to a structure object, suitably converted, points to its initial
> member. There may be unnamed padding within a structure object, but not at
> its beginning" — WG14/N1256 Section 6.7.2.1.13

This means that alignment is kept for the first member of a struct, which in
return allows us to cast.

If we have have this scenario:

```c
typedef struct A A;
typedef struct B B;

struct A
{
    int val;
};

struct B
{
    A base;
};
```

...and cast this like so:

```c
B b;
A* a;

B_ctor(&b, 1);
a = (A*)&b;
b = (*(B*)a);
```

...or cast this like so:

```c
B b;
A* a;
B* c;

B_ctor(&b, 1);
a = (A*)&b;
c = (B*)a;
```

Then it will cast correctly `B` -> `A` -> `B` (tested on Clang 7+ and GCC 4+).

## Side effects

There is however one thing to keep in mind; When downcasting from an upcast
using pointer reference cast, pointer types lose their reference, resulting in
a `segfault` or accessing in random memory.

```c
typedef struct A A;
typedef struct B B;

struct A
{
    int val;
};

struct B
{
    A baseA;
    A* virtA;
};

void B_ctor(B* self, int a)
{
    self->baseA.val = a;
    self->virtA = &self->baseA;
}
```

```c
B b;
A a;

B_ctor(&b, 1);
a = (*(A*)&b);
b = (*(B*)&a);
```

For example, accessing `b.virtA->val` would result in a segfault, but
accessing `b.virtA->val` would not.

## Conclusion

You now know how to upcast and downcast structs in C89, as well as the possible
side effects from doing this. In the next article I'll discuss inheritance
through interfaces.
