# Creation of this website

We live in the age of the corporate internet. Most pages are related to news
from large news organizations, social media websites tracking your every move,
many webstores and a whole lot of junk websites.

Today's web is bloated beyond comprehension: Huge banners, large images, a lot
of wasted words, cookies, many server requests, loads and loads of javascript
that no one needs, lots of trackers too.

The original internet wasn't this; it was a medium to share information and
exchange knowledge. To have your own unique constructed space in the vast
digital ocean.

With this blog I want to reconstruct what the internet stood for.

## Design

I wanted something simple that could scale for a host of devices. My primary
targets are mobile phones and desktop browsers. The target browser for feature
support is Internet Explorer 11. My target website size is simple; it need to
be transferrable in one go by a 56k modem.

All of those rules force me to go for a simple non-bloated design.

Originally I wanted to use a wide image banner portraying `Ganyu` from
`Genshin Impact`, but I realized it was pretty big to transfer and that it
wouldn't be very future-proof either. That's why I instead opted for a nice
gradient background with colors matching that of a setting sun; one of my
favorite views in the Netherlands.

## Usage

Since I don't like writing html by hand, I decided I would use markdown for
my articles and have those translated to html at some point. Since I don't
want my website to use javascript, my only real option is to go for
prerendering everything. Code highlighting is another thing I really wanted
because the code is so much nicer to read that way at a relative low price
in size.

## Putting it together

I decided that using `bootstrap 5` and stripping it down to the bare minimum
was the best course of action for basic theming. They got the scalability right
and stripping it down means I don't have to serve 260KB of css.

For code highlighting I went with `prism` since `shiki` embeds the color inside
the html, which means more to serve overall. `Highlightjs` doesn't support all
my use-cases.

First I went for `showdown` to generate md to html as it supported all my
use-cases at first, but it has become more complex now so I moved to
`markdown-it` instead.

To lower the size of the website as much as possible, I minify the html, and
bundle + minify the css files. That means less requests and less redundant data
to transfer to the browser.

At last I had to write a static website generator to combine it all together.
I opted for writing the whole thing using `jsdom` to get a browser-like syntax
for manipulating the html code. I tried writing it using `vite-plugin-ssr` but
the whole website was far more bloated with than without, in addition to not
being able to debug the website without a web server running.

## Result

I'm pretty happy with it! I only have to write an article and press the `build`
button to get everything just the way I want it to be. Maybe I could look into
replacing jsdom with a more lightweight alternative, but it works good enough
for now.
