# OOP-C89: Virtual inheritance

While most OOP languages opt for implementing interfaces only, there is another
lesser-known technique which I think is the pure way of implementing multiple
inheritance: virtual inheritance. Using this technique, you don't have to
implement everything twice.

Suppose we have this construction:

```csharp
class A
{
    int x;

    A(int x)
    {
        this.x = x;
    }
}

class B : A
{
    int y;

    B(int x, int y) : A(x)
    {
        this.y = y;
    }
}

class C : A
{
    int z;

    C(int x, int z) : A(x)
    {
        this.z = z;
    }
}

class D : B, C
{
    int v;

    D(int x, int y, int z, int v) : B(x, y), C(x, z)
    {
        this.v = v;
    }
}
```

Both `B` and `C` contain a copy of `A`, so when `D` is constructed which of the
two instances of `A` is the original copy? The answer with interfaces is "none
because you're not allowed to inherit from two classes".

In C++, you would mark `A` in both `B` and `C` as `virtual`:

```csharp
class B : virtual A
{
    // ...
}

class C : virtual A
{
    // ...
}
```

What C++ does internally is that it creates an instance of `A` separately, then
makes each class in the inheritance tree inheriting virually from `A` gets the
address of this instance assigned to it.

Here is how I would emulate this in C89:

```c
typedef struct A A;
typedef struct B B;
typedef struct C C;
typedef struct D D;

struct A
{
    int x;
};

struct B
{
    A* virt;
    int y;
};

struct C
{
    A* virt;
    int z;
};

struct D
{
    B base_b;
    C base_c;
    int v;
};

void A_ctor(A* self, int x)
{
    self->x = x;
}

void B_ctor(B* self, A* virt, int y)
{
    self->virt = virt;
    self->y = y;
}

void C_ctor(C* self, A* virt, int z)
{
    self->virt = virt;
    self->z = z;
}

void D_ctor(D* self, A* virt, int y, int z, int v)
{
    B_ctor(&self->base_b, virt, y);
    C_ctor(&self->base_c, virt, z);
    self->v = v;
}
```

The interesting part from this implementation is that we change how the class
base is stored.

```c
struct B
{
    A* virt;
    int y;
};
```

By making it a pointer, we force forwarding of initialization so we can obtain
the right instance of `A` when it's available. This does mean that we have to
create an instance of `A` and initialize it separately.

We have to do this in order to successfully initialize `D`:

```c
A a;
D d;

A_ctor(&a, 1);
D_ctor(&d, &a, 2, 3, 4);
```

Casting works the same as with all other class-like constructs:

```c
A a;
D d;
C* c;

A_ctor(&a, 1);
D_ctor(&d, &a, 2, 3, 4);

c = (C*)&d;
d = (*(D*)c);
```

## Compared to interfaces

There is obviously no right answer which one is better, as it depends on your
use-case. It's clear that interfaces take less memory overall since you can
share the same VMT accross all instances of that class, but you end up with
(much) more code in your application compared to virtual inheritance as you
need to reimplement that functionality for each class inheriting it.

## Conclusion

You now know how to solve the diamont problem through virtual inheritance,
how to implement it and how it compares to interfaces. In the next article
I'll cover polymorphism and abstract classes.
