# C89-Goto: loops

In my previous article I explained the history behind the keyword briefly and
shared my opinion on the `goto` statement. Today I'll quickly demonstrate how
`goto` can be used to emulate loop control structures. It is shown here for
educational purpose only, I doubt anyone is waiting to see this in their
production code unless the language only has support for `if-else` and `goto`.

A `while` loop looks like this in C89:

```c
/* while: statement */

int i = 0;
int s = 10;

while (i < s)
{
    printf("%d", i);
    ++i;
}

printf("done!");
```

What it does step-by-step is this:

1. check if condition is met
    - yes: terminate loop
    - no: run loop:
        1. print the value of the iterator (`i`)
        2. increment our iterator (`i`)
        3. iterate to the next cycle

It would look like this in goto:

```c
/* while: goto-begin_label */

int i = 0;
int s = 10;

loop_begin:
if (i < s)
{
    printf("%d", i);
    ++i;
    goto loop_begin;
}

printf("done!");
```

1. check if condition is met
    - yes: don't run scoped code
    - no: run scoped code:
        1. print the value of the iterator (`i`)
        2. increment our iterator (`i`)
        3. jump back to restart (`goto loop_begin;`)

To explain how `break` and `continue` work, I'll use a slightly more
`goto`-intensive solution:

```c
/* while: goto-all_labels */

int i = 0;
int s = 10;

loop_begin:
if (i >= s) goto loop_end;
printf("%d", i);
++i;
goto loop_begin;
loop_end:

printf("done!");
```

You probably notice that the `while: goto-all_labels` example is very flat in
structure, and that it reads much more like assembly than a conventional
programming language. This is indeed true, because the code above is more or
less what a compiler would translate our loop to in readable form.

What essentially happens in the example:

1. check if condition is met
    - yes: terminate loop (`goto loop_end;`)
    - no: continue executing
2. print the value of the iterator (`i`)
3. increment our iterator (`i`)
4. jump back to restart (`goto loop_begin;`)

For those paying attention, you can observe that:

- `goto loop_begin` is the same as the `continue` statement
- `goto loop_end` is the same as the `break` statement

This holds true for labled breaks as well. `break`, `continue` and variations
thereof, as well as `for`, `foreach` and `switch-case` are all just goto in
sheeps clothing.

A `do-while` loop would look like this:

```c
/* do-while: goto */

int i = 0;
int s = 10;

loop_begin:
printf("%d", i);
++i;
if (i >= s) goto loop_end;
goto loop_begin;
loop_end:

printf("done!");
```

All we really have to do if move the `goto loop_end;` just above the
`goto_begin` to ensure everything is at least executed once.

## Conclusion

Hopefully you now understand how `while`. `do-while`, `break` and `continue`
can be emulated using the `goto` statement. In the next article I'll explain
how `goto` can be used to emulate the `switch-case` control structure.
