# Rant: zealotism

I'm a mostly self-taught programmer, I like _concise_ code: as simple,
minimalistic and direct, modular, performant, portable, zero or very low
dependency on external code or libraries. I like solving problems and thinking
of ways to improve, to program the way in the unix philosophy, to find
solutions of my own and get creative. Programming is a form of art after all.

Most of this was lost with the advent of frameworks, package repositories,
design patterns and object-oriented principles, unit tests, everything under
"the modern way" and "best practices". Scratch that, include anything related
to enterprise programming standards. None of these are bad per-se, but they
became bad ideas because for some reason people are _very_ zealotic about them.

## An example

"Program to an interface, not the implementation" is a good one. The idea
itself isn't bad at all, but only on small scale where you know you'll have to
replace systems later on. Interfaces do have a hidden cost that no one
considers because they do not know the inner workings of a language. It's
stupid to bind _everything_ to an interface, because now you don't only have
double the work to maintain but now your whole application is littered with
function pointer tables. Dependency Injection frameworks to me make little
sense for this reason, the cost and complexity is too high for the gain.

## Unit testing

Another one is unit testing. The idea itself is great; you can make sure
exceptional circumstances are tested well. But to force your full application
(every single function) to be tested this way? That's a waste of everyone's
time. Unit tests are not a specification for your program to follow. Otherwise
people will just focus on passing a test that could be wrong because the
specification is wrong. That doesn't solve your program not working as
intended or being slow.

## Package manager

Then there is frameworks, often employed in combination of a package manager
because frameworks these days are build out of hundereds of tiny packages.
That's hundereds of possible vunerabilities as [Mend](https://www.mend.io/)
reported over 1300 malicious packages being hosted on npm (node package
manager), and the recent discoveries show how devastating it can be like with
`log4j` in Java which was a "best pratice" to use.

In addition, if the package manager service is down you no longer obtain these
packages unless their source code is hosted somewhere else. 

So far I've yet to find a real good use case for a package manager. They are
there for convenience and control (of the platform). For C/C++ I just search
online for the library I need and use it. This has worked for many years, so
why doesn't it work anymore? I can't see why.

## Frameworks

Back to frameworks. These are usually bloated in functionality you rarely ever
gotta use to it's full extend but still pay the price for. It's written in a
generic fashion so you can be sure it's not optimized to your use-case. The
worst part is that most people don't read nor understand the inner workings of
the framework's code. They rely on others telling them that everything is
alright and assume the framework doesn't change.

There are valid use-cases for frameworks, like for things that truly are too
big to be understood by one person. A game engine and scientific frameworks are
a very good example of this. Those are there out of necessity, not out of
convenience (eg most javascript frameworks out there like `express`, `vue` and
`react`)
