# Programming: Lost in time

With the years, I'm starting to feel more and more out of place, like a glitch
in the matrix. I feel alone, lost in time. There are many programming pratices
that used to be different, but didn't change for the better. There are many
things that burden me in the current circles of programming. Today I write
these thoughts down in the hope that I might not alone. I might update this
article over time.

I'm a mostly self-taught programmer, I like _concise_ code: as simple,
minimalistic and direct, modular, performant, portable, zero or very low
dependency on external code or libraries. I like solving problems and thinking
of ways to improve, to program the way in the unix philosophy, to find
solutions of my own and get creative. Programming is a form of art after all.

Most of this was lost with the advent of frameworks, package repositories,
design patterns and object-oriented principles, unit tests and everything under
"the modern way". Scratch that, include anything related to enterprise
programming standards. None of these are bad per-se, but they became this
because for some reason people are _very_ zealotic about them.

## An example

"Program to an interface, not the implementation" is a good one. The idea
itself isn't bad at all, but only on small scale where you know you'll have to
replace systems later on. Interfaces do have a hidden cost that no one
considers because they do not know the inner workings of a language. It's
stupid to bind _everything_ to an interface, because now you don't only have
double the work to maintain but now your whole application is littered with
function pointer tables. Dependency Injection frameworks to me make little
sense for this reason, the cost and complexity is too high for the gain.

## Unit testing

Another one is unit testing. The idea itself is great; you can make sure
exceptional circumstances are tested well. But to force your full application
(every single function) to be tested this way? That's a waste of everyone's
time. Unit tests are not a specification for your program to follow. Otherwise
people will just focus on passing a test that could be wrong because the
specification is wrong. That doesn't solve your program not working as
intended or being slow.

## Package manager

Then there is frameworks, often employed in combination of a package manager
because frameworks these days are build out of hundereds of tiny packages.
That's hundereds of possible vunerabilities as [Mend](https://www.mend.io/)
reported over 1300 malicious packages being hosted on npm (node package
manager), and the recent discoveries show how devastating it can be like with
`log4j` in Java which was a "best pratice" to use.

## Frameworks

Back to frameworks. These are usually bloated in functionality you rarely ever
gotta use to it's full extend but still pay the price for. It's written in a
generic fashion so you can be sure it's not optimized to your use-case. The
worst part is that most people don't read nor understand the inner workings of
the framework's code. They rely on others telling them that everything is
alright and assume the framework doesn't change.

That blind form of trust reminds me of this song:

```md
Give me your trust, said the King on high
A promise of peaceful and prosperous lives
Trust my compassion will reign pure and true
A kingdom of glory and joy through and through
But trust is the scent of a burning village
Trust the scent from spoils and pillage
Trust is the scent of a souls last breath
Trust is the scent of death

-- Wheel of Time: Color of Trust, Reflections of Sound Music
```
## Object-Oriented programming

All I gotta say already has been said by `Joe Armstrong`, one of the creators
of erlang. The article can be found here: 
[link](http://harmful.cat-v.org/software/OO_programming/why_oo_sucks).
