# Rant: non-C(ense) embedded devices

Recently I came across a couple of embedded boards that had a java vm flashed
on top of it. Same for javascript, python, lua and a couple of other languages.
Most boast about their _low_ 5MB runtimes and efficiency, but the cool kids on
the block forgot that father C can do those numbers _and_ have a very advanced
application flashed in the same or less space.

Before anyone comments that non-C languages are simpler, adding bells and
whistles to a language doens't make for a simpler language. Being less verbose
doesn't have to result in simplicity either, hiding details can make things far
more complex. No, it's the way we design and write our code. I do agree however
that C's toolchains often are complicated to setup properly compared to most
other languages, but this has nothing to do with the language itself.

An embedded device should have the lowest power consumption and storage
requirements possible, have the code written as minimalistic and direct as
possible, direct control over memory allocation, and absolutely not have costly
layers of abstraction (oop, virtual machines, interpreters, etc). To that end,
C89 is in my opinion the only language that fits the bill.

Most people forget that embedded devices are _mission critical_, meaning that
they shouldn't fail under any circumstances. The more complex the device (more
storage, a more advanced processor, etc) the more points of possible failure.
Adding a relative large runtime to it for the sake of a "simpler" language only
increases the possibility of failure.

Using C for system and embedded devices makes sense. Using Go for desktop
applications makes sense. Using scripting languages for _scripting_ makes
sense. Using a scripting language for embedded devices doesn't, period.
