# C89-OOP: Dynamic allocation

In most OOP languages a class is a reference type, meaning they get allocated
on the heap. This means in C89 that we got to manually allocate and deallocate
the memory for this class.

## New Foo

For a recap, here is `Foo` from `C89-OOP: Class` that is going to be used for
demonstration purposes:

```c
typedef struct Foo Foo;

struct Foo
{
    int x;
};

void Foo_ctor(Foo* self, int x)
{
    self->x = x;
}
```

Adding in a wrapper around memory allocation isn't hard by any means:

```c
Foo* Foo_new(int x)
{
    Foo* self = malloc(sizeof(Foo));
    Foo_ctor(self, x);
    return self;
}
```

Here we allocate the memory, call the constructor and return the instance to
match the behaviour of the `new` keyword in most OOP languages. Initializing
the base classes can be done in the constructor, no need to allocate this
explicitly:

```c
void Bar_ctor(Bar* self, int x, int y)
{
    Foo_ctor(self->base, x);
    self->y = y;
}

Bar* Bar_new(int x, int y)
{
    Bar* self = malloc(sizeof(Bar));
    Bar_ctor(self, x, y);
    return self;
}
```

As for deallocation:

```c
void Foo_dtor(Foo* self)
{
    /* deallocate member memory */
}

void Foo_delete(Foo* self)
{
    Foo_dtor(self);
    free(self);
}
```

While it's not required, I think it's nice to wrap the `free` in a new function
to make it distinct that we're deallocating an instance of `Foo` and not
something else by chance. One thing to keep in mind is that you want to make
sure to deallocate all allocated memory from inherited classes as well:

```c
void Bar_dtor(Bar* self)
{
    Foo_dtor(self->base);
    /* deallocate member memory */
}

void Bar_delete(Bar* self)
{
    Bar_dtor(self);
    free(self);
}
```

This ensures we release all memory.

## Usage

Again, nothing noteworthy:

```c
Foo* foo = Foo_new(1);
int val = 0;

val = foo->x;

Foo_delete(foo);
```

## Conclusion

A simple but effective stratagy for a simple problem. One thing I like about
this is how easy it is to read. You know exactly what everything is doing
without much overhead. In fact, it can be expanded on by adding support for
memory pools without too much complications.
