# Goto: cleanup

In my previous article I explained how the `goto` statement can be used to
emulate the `switch-case` control structure. For this last entry of the series,
I'll demonstrate one of the few techniques that `goto` is still actively used
for today in the embedded world: resource cleanup and as a barebone exception
handling mechanism. For a change, this _is_ something you can apply in
production, and would heavily recommend you do so when it's appropiate!

The last but most important part of `goto` is that it can be done to handle
cleanup elegantly in case an error occurs. For example, let's take this piece
of code:

```c
/* cleanup: if-return */

void *p1 = NULL;
void *p2 = NULL;
void *p3 = NULL;

p1 = malloc(16);

if (!p1)
{
    return;
}

/* use p1 here */

p2 = malloc(16);

if (!p2)
{
    if (p1) free(p1);
    return;
}

/* use p2 here */

p3 = malloc(16);

if (!p3)
{
    if (p2) free(p2);
    if (p1) free(p1);
    return;
}

/* use p3 here */

if (p3) free(p3);
if (p2) free(p2);
if (p1) free(p1);
```

The goal of this example is to allocate memory in steps, do something with it
in between and allocate some more, until we reach the exit point where all
memory needs to be freed. In between, we need to make sure that the memory is
correctly allocated. If it isn't, clean up memory and terminate.

It looks like a real mess, but this is how I often encounter programmers
handling cleanup because people do not know they could use `goto` for this:

```c
/* cleanup: goto */

void *p1 = NULL;
void *p2 = NULL;
void *p3 = NULL;

p1 = malloc(16);
if (!p1) goto cleanup;

/* use p1 here */

p2 = malloc(16);
if (!p2) goto cleanup;

/* use p2 here */

p3 = malloc(16);
if (!p3) goto cleanup;

/* use p3 here */

cleanup:
if (p3) free(p3);
if (p2) free(p2);
if (p1) free(p1);
```

That looks much more concise, doesn't it? This technique could also be used for
handling errors that normally would throw an exception in other languages.

## Conclusion

Hopefully this series gave you some insight on how `goto` can be used to
emulate control structures, what the code you write with normal control
structures roughly gets translated to in assembly (without optimizations), and
how you can do a very clean and concise cleanup of resources with `goto`.
