# Rant: Code accessability

With human languages, not only words themselves, but also the grammar and
structure of a language dictates how we think. For example, in a language where
gender is assigned to various forms of words, it will dictate how you use those
words.

Chinese for example is terribly difficult due to all kinds of exceptions to the
rules and lack of dictated structure, whereas English is much easier to pick up
due to having less complicated rules, exceptions and a more clearly defined
structure. However, in Chinese we have tight compression of a sentence, and it
can express ideas that cannot be done in English because simply no equivant.

After having used a variety of languages, I can confirm it's the same for
programming languages as well with the exception of expression depending on
how close to the operating system a language is.

- Code one-liners that are long is more obfuscated than a language that forces
  you to make multiple simple sentences to explain the same concepts.
- Lines with many operations at once are more obfuscated than distributing
  them to multiple lines.
- No clear definition of data and/or structure makes it much easier for the
  code and operations to become messy and obfuscated.
- Large standard libraries and codebases cannot fit inside the brain of the
  code authors, thus it makes the author dependent on external tooling and
  cannot write without it. The same holds true for long descriptive names.
- Data structures for humans and not for computers means we think and write
  code with all the deficiencies of human languages.

Complexity is the detriment of languages, and all of the above add complexity.

Having one operation per line, a clear distinction of scope, plenty of spacing
to segment code, self-explanatory code, zero to very little reliance on
(standard) libraries, a maximum line width of 80 characters, and write verbose
and clear data structures and code helps tremendously with improving code
readability.

In fact, it helps people who can see only with one eye like me too. I only see
and read one side of a 24' inch monitor. By having one operation per line, it's
easier for screen readers to read the code out loud and keep it segmented.

I know my brain capacity is limited. Reading code, remembering what I read and
thinking of a solution for the problem at hand together requires quite some
energy and brain capacity. That's why it's important to keep it small,
structured and segmented. To write code like a machine, not like a human or use
fancy tricks/paradigms/libraries. To make it good enough that I can work on the
code in unmodded GNU Nano without code completion or syntax highlighting.
