# C89-Goto: thoughts

If there is something close to religion in programming, it probably involves
the `goto` statement. A scarcely yielded but very powerful tool in the hands of
a skilled programmer, or absolute blasphemy in acedemia. Regardless of what one
believes, I think it's crucial to understand the `goto` statement in order to
understand execution flow of an application.

## Goto considered harmful

The history behind why `goto` is considered harmful is due to the nature of
implementations in old languages. In modern languages, `goto` is restricted to
function it's executed in (a short jump). However, in older languages `goto`
was able to jump outside these bounds into a completely different part of the
application (a long jump).

With programming languages evolving rapidly in the 1970s, Edsger W. Dijkstra
made the case in a public letter that alternatives to `goto` should be
preferred when available to denote more specifically what was going on, and
that there is rarely a case where `goto` _should_ be used.

Sadly, people (mostly acedemia) took his message out of context and
dogmatically believed that `goto` should _never_ be used, even at the detriment
of the code's quality. Donald E. Knuth wrote in response a publication which
highlights more in-depth where goto should and shouldn't be used, as well as
the loss of quality when other control structures are used incorrectly to avoid
`goto` usage.

The result is that the next 20 years programming language would opt for adding
`goto` with short-jump functionality instead of long-jump, and starting around
2000 new languages would opt for excluding goto entirely, replacing it with
labled breaks and newer inventions like exceptions to reduce the need for goto
tremendously.

## What was lost

There is something which saddens me to see as a self-proclaimed programming
language linguist: the simplicity of a language. One can emulate almost every
control structure in existance (excluding `if` and maybe something very exotic
that I'm not aware of) with the `goto` statement.

This means that we would only need primitive data types (`int`, `short`, etc),
`struct`, arrays, (function) pointers, `malloc` and `free`, `if`, `else`,
`return`, and `goto` to have a language capable enough to express all code
structures a "modern" programming language (rust, go, java, C#) includes.

This means we wouldn't need `while`, `do-while`, `for`, `foreach`, `break`,
`continue`, `switch-case` and the likes to clutter the language, all of it can
be expressed with `goto`.

Sure it might not look the same, but I wouldn't say it would necessarily be
worse since we're very explicit about execution flow. It takes a different
mindset than what most are being taught; how to think like a computer.

Because the `goto` statement is no longer taught today, most people don't know
how to use it, when to use it and why to use it. And thus people are dreaded
by encountering the statement, declaring it a "bad code practice". And since we
live in the world of "best code pratices" and "standards", it is the worst
insult a statement can get and thus it gets avoided at all cost.

Programmers no longer research why things are the way they are.

## So, what now?

For educational and archiving purposes I'll talk in this series of articles
about how goto can be used to emulate existing control structures, as well an
example of where `goto` can still be used today. Hopefully this will spread
more (positive) awareness of how the `goto` statement can be utilized.
