# OOP: Class

Today I'll try to explain as simple as possible what a basic class would look
like in C89. so it's easier to understand later the choices I make for
emulation of OOP. I make the assumption that we're emulating static OOP, not
something crazy like prototypes.

In essence, a `class` is nothing more than a `struct` (fields) with functions
(methods). In order to know which instance to manipulate the data from, a
method contains a hidden pointer (`this` keyword) which points to the instance.
Type aliassing (`typeof`) is used to give every class it's own type.

For example, let's take this class:

```csharp
class Foo
{
    int x;

    Foo(int x)
    {
        this.x = x;
    }

    int getX()
    {
        return this.x;
    }
}
```

We got the field `x`, a constructor to initialize the value of `x` and a method
that returns the value of `x`. Foo is an user-defined type.

Emulating this is not very hard in C89:

```c
typedef struct Foo Foo;

struct Foo
{
    int x;
};

void Foo_ctor(Foo* self, int x)
{
    self->x = x;
}

int Foo_getX(Foo* self)
{
    return self->x;
}
```

For those familliar with C, there isn't anything special here. Note that `this`
is renamed to `self` to ensure compatability with C++ (which has a `this`
keyword in its language).

```c
typedef struct Foo Foo;
```

Here we use type aliassing to make `Foo` its own type.

```c
struct Foo
{
    int x;
};
```

This is where `Foo`'s fields and class information (more on this later) are
stored, which is in our case only `x`.

```c
void Foo_ctor(Foo* self, int x)
{
    self->x = x;
}
```

This is the constructor (ctor). Here we initialize the value of the member `x`.
We use the `self` parameter to know which instance of `Foo` to initialize.

```c
int Foo_getX(Foo* self)
{
    return self->x;
}
```

This is the user-defined method. Pretty much the same as above; `self` contains
the instance to operate on.

## Conclusion

You've now learned what the antonomy of a class looks like, how to convert this
to C89, and that the `this` keyword needs a bit of special care for emulation.

In the next article I'll discuss how to do single inheritance!
