# OOP-C89: Thoughts

To me, object-oriented programming is a bit weird. It's like trying to make
many small-contained programs in a big program, or to componentize your code to
the extend it's becoming lego bricks; plug and play. It's a way of programming
loved by enterprises and acedemia for the modularity, protections and
standarization, as well as for all the open-ended debate and research that
comes with new techniques and philosophies. On the other side, very important
programmers like `Rob Pike`, `Paul Graham` and `John Carmack`
advocate against the usage of object-oriented design:

> "object-oriented design is the roman numerals of computing." — Rob Pike

> "The object-oriented model makes it easy to build up programs by accretion.
> What this often means, in practice, is that it provides a structured way to
> write spaghetti code." — Paul Graham

> "Sometimes, the elegant implementation is just a function. Not a method. Not
> a class. Not a framework. Just a function." — John Carmack

> "It is not that uncommon for the cost of an abstraction to outweigh the
> benefit it delivers. Kill one today!" — John Carmack

## Correctness

Something I wondered about is that imperative program use tuning machines to
prove mathmetical corectness of a program. Functional programs can use labda
calculus. Event driven languages can use pi calculus. But what about OOP? So
far there is no mathmetical model which can validate the mathmetical corectness
of such a program, or at least not one that I am aware of.

Instead, OOP relies on principles and paradigms like GRASP and SOLID:

- Favor composition over inheritance
- Hollywood Principle
- Program to an Interface, not to an Implementation
- GRASP
    - Creator
    - Controller
    - High Cohesion
    - Indirection
    - Information Expert
    - Low Coupling
    - Polymorphism
    - Pure Fabrication
- SOLID
    - Single Responsibility Principle
    - Open Closed Principle
    - Liskov Substitution principle
    - Interface Segregation Principle
    - Dependency Inversion Principle

All those combined form the basis of writing a "correct" program in an
OOP-based language. To me this is really weird, because we're programming for
mathmetical machines and not humans. Sure we as programmers spend all our lives
reading code, but that's nothing in comparison how long a program runs on the
end-user's machine (customer, server, whatever).

## OOP considered harmful?

Because of all the standarization efforts, it's much easier for enterprises to
look for programmers with a specific set of skills universally understood. This
in theory means there are much more job oppertunities, but in pratice it means
the programmers are now turned into robots glueing components together others
wrote or written by yourself.

Okay that's quite an overstatement, but there is truth to this; businesses like
to play it safe, why write it yourself if someone else did it already? There
are plenty of arguments to be made in opposition to this, but usually it's not
appriciated. That's why these days I just try to avoid the discussion.

I don't think that OOP is bad on it's own, there certainly are cases where OOP
_is_ the best solution. However, I believe that most programmers passionate
about OOP go too deep into the doctrine of adhearing to principles and
paradigms, making them blind to the complexity it brings with it.

That's why I want to cover in my upcoming article series how to emulate various
OOP features, how it could utilized in C89, and to demonstrate the hidden cost
behind OOP.
